---
title: 'Large Language Models Concepts'
date: 2024-01-18
permalink: /posts/2024/01/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - LLM
---
LLM courses' notes




Chapter 1 : Introduction to Large Language Models (LLM)
======

1 The rise of LLMs in AI landscape
======
AI has performed well in data-driven tasks such as sentiment analysis, fraud detection and more. However, it traditionally lacked ability to understand context, respond to open-ended questions, and generate human-like responses in conversation. Recent developments in language-based AI models have led to a disruptive breakthrough. These models, called Large Language Models, can process language as humans do. 

LLMs use deep learning techniques to perform a variety of NLP (Natural Language Processing (NLP) is the technology that allows computers to understand, interpret, and generate human language in a meaningful way. This technology is often employed in applications such as translation services and chatbots.) tasks such as text classification, summarization, generation and more.  

Definitions of LLMs : 
------
Large : training data and resources 
Language : they are powerful in processing and analyze human language data
Models : Learn complex patterns using text data 

The defining moment : 
------
The LLM is considered the defining moment. 
GPT series is one of the most popular language models among the family of LLMs, primarily because of its ability to engage in rich human interactions. 

Applications :
------
Sentiment analysis, Identifying themes, Translating speech or text, Generating codes, Next-word prediction. 

Objectives of this course
------
- Conceptual understanding of LLMs
- Training data considerations
- Ethical, privacy and environmental concerns
- wrap up this course by covering the enhancements and future work of LLMs 


2 Real-world applications :
======
This section aims to understand business opportunities and benefits of leveraging LLMs. 

Business opportunies
------
Benefits : Automate tasks, Improve efficiency, create revenue streams, enable new capacities. (自动化任务、提高效率、创造收入流、启用新能力。)

Transforming finance industry
------
Financial analysis of a company can be complex and may include processing unstructured text such as investement outlooks, annual reports, new articles, and socia media posts. 




















